now most animations actually are in stand alone most of
the time we're going to be using animations in conjunction
with gestures. So an example of this is when
you have a scroll view and as you scroll up
the header changes or for example if the user swipes
and then as you swipe the U. I needs
to change. So for us, what we want
to do is you want to implement swipe to delete
so at the moment you need to tap on the
delete button. But most applications that you use,
for example, gmail will have a functionality to swipe
to delete as well. So we're going to add
a pretty simple implementation so that the user will swipe
right or left and when they go over a threshold
, the card will will animate all the way to
the like right or left and then disappear. So
to do that, let's install react native gesture handler
and then in your index Js So this is at
the root level. Let's add import react native gesture
handler. So this will be the very first line
in your file. You don't add it anywhere in
the bottom and we'll see the IOS and pulling store
and then for android will also need to update the
main activity. The java so that it overrides the
method responsible for like basically you need to eat to
add this in order for the gesture handed to work
on android. So let's copy this and open main
activity and we'll add these imports and also we need
to add this function. Yeah. And then we
should be good to go so we'll need to john
is to rebuild the I was up. Alright,
let's open our mood item row. And in here
let's import pan gesture handler from react native gesture handler
. Mhm. Now pan is like a swipe um
interaction you can also have like for example a pinch
gesture handler. Yeah. And then let's wrap our
entire mood item in the pan gesture handler. Now
you also want to set the min delta X and
min delta Y. Uh And this is basically to
tell the gesture handler when to start registering the gesture
event. So this basically tells us that we don't
really care about like gestures that go this way.
We only really care about gestures that go this way
and then we use we use on just a moment
and this will be a function. And so just
to show you what this looks like. Mhm.
Event. Native event dot why? So if I
do console dot warn then if I go right or
left. Oh I think I care about X instead
. Thank you. So as I go right or
left, you can see the logs here updating.
Now we're actually not going to use this event directly
because we want to combine it with reanimated too.
So there is a animated gesture handler that's built into
reanimated which works in combination with um the react native
gesture handler and creates like an optimized workflow. So
yeah, if we do const um on gesture meant
. Mhm. And we'll do use animated gesture handler
and then this takes an object and this has a
dependency rate and this takes an object so on active
. So this gets called whenever you change whenever you
swipe and this takes the event and we'll do console
warn event dot X. The other is that if
we use the gesture event directly we to do event
dot NATO mental X. But with the animals a
gesture handler, we don't need to select the native
events separately. So that's past this here. Mhm
. Alright. So now when we swipe we get
this error saying on gesture handler, event is expected
to function. Got value of object type. And
this is actually because the first item inside the gesture
handler has to be an animated or be animated component
. So if we import reanimated. Mhm from recognition
reanimated. And then here on this view that's just
inside the pan gesture handler. We do reanimated dot
view. So both of you and text can be
created like this reanimated? Yes, top you.
So now when you reload, let me go here
we get our log. Like we were expecting.
All right. So what we're interested in is the
translation. So how much the user has moved the
item from when they started. So on this event
we have translation. X. So let's see how
this works. Okay, so here when I start
you can see it's like minus values and then go
to the right is plus values. Perfect and then
we want to use this translation to actually animate this
card so that when I move this with my finger
then the card moves with it. So let's create
a shared value. So translate X. Use shared
value And we'll start with zero and here we'll do
on active translate X dot value equals event dot translation
X. Did I misspell translate translate X. Yeah
excellent. And now we will create an animated style
. So const a card style equals use animated style
and this will be an arrow function that returns an
object with the dependencies array and let's translate the card
based on this translation value. So let's do transform
Is an array with one object and translate X.
And this will be the translate X dot value.
Mhm. Now we can apply the card style to
our mood item. Now when we swipe on this
card you can see the card moves however it doesn't
go back to its original position. So here in
our used on gesture event we can do on end
, look at the event, you don't need the
went on end. Well basically do translate X dr
value Equals zero. So when we finish we'll go
back to zero. So there you go. So
I go here and it goes back to zero.
Now obviously this snaps but thankfully we already have a
nice tool to make any value, any of these
values animate. So if we use with timing.
20. Yeah and say so now. Okay so
I need to reload as well so now when we
let go you can see that it smoothly transitions back
to zero. Now I want to do is when
the user swipes past a certain threshold, we animate
the card all the way to the right, all
the way to the left off the screen and then
we delete the item. So let's define a threshold
as the const of max swipe And let's make it
let's make it 80. Alright, so here on
active so when we finish we want to I think
we get the event here and we can do if
event, translation X. Okay, so I want
the absolute value of this. So math dot apps
of translation X. So if this is larger then
um next swipe, so if this is true.
Yeah then we're going to delete, so let me
just check that we're getting here correctly. Mhm.
Okay and then if I just do a little bit
. Okay cool so this works. Okay so if
we're at max wipe then we wanted to leave.
So firstly what we want to do is you want
to swipe the card all the way to the like
off the screen so it turns it X. Stop
value equals um It's 2 1000. So still with
timing and 1000. Okay let's try that. So
we swipe here, let's reload again. If you
update these hooks they don't hot reload properly. So
it's good to do a proper refresh. So here
we go here. Okay so oh it's just because
we're setting this to zero so that's still else this
one. Okay so reload good here. Alright so
where thresholds? Okay so this is not Oh I
did 100. Still 1000. Okay so we go
here. Okay so it it does go off the
screen but it goes the wrong way so it always
goes on the right. So we want to make
this minus 1000 if the user swipe to the left
and actually a nice way to do that is you
can use math dot sine. So I think it's
a you multiplied so math dot sign of this and
the check if this works. Okay so it's method
sign but I accidentally He didn't put it inside here
so it's 1000 times method sign with the translation.
So let me just reload this so you can see
that if I go to the left it's close to
the left if you go to the right. So
so light. So what methods sign does is it
looks at whatever sign this is and then it just
returns basically plus one or minus one. So if
this is negative, it will make this whole value
negative and if it's positive it's a positive. All
right, so we've now swiped our item off the
screen. So now we also want to delete it
. So we already have up context here and we
all have already have handled the lead here. So
let's just yeah, um Call Hand of Elite.
But the thing is we don't want to delete it
straight away. We want to leave some time for
the animation to finish and then delete it. So
let's create another use callback. Delete with delay and
direct. He was called back. Okay, let's
just do a set time out. So here let's
do a set time out and an arrow function.
Let's just wait for half a second. It's probably
enough. And after this time out let's just call
and I'll delete. Mhm. So we'll add the
dependency array to meet with delay. Yeah. Okay
. And let's open her up and then if we
swipe. Okay, So now we actually get this
error and you'll see this a lot when you're working
with the animated too. If you're trying to like
cold JavaScript from within an animation. So if you
want to call a javascript code within this treasure hunter
, like we do you need to use run on
Js to tell it to run the javascript thread.
So if you import, run on Js and then
here are delete with delay. We wrap it and
run on Js and safe and also reload. And
now we swipe, You can see that it's wipes
away our items sketch be tickled. Yeah. So
I do realize that this is different from my code
example. I'll probably update the code example later.
So this is actually a simpler way of doing this
. The original on gesture event that I built wasn't
using the animated gesture handler so this is a much
more optimized way of doing it rather than storing this
in context.